inst/templates/R-README.md, before:

# Description of R/ folder and .R files

This folder contains custom functions used for this project's analyses, such as
in the `doc/` folder. It's recommended that if a piece of code is used more than
once in your analysis files, make it into a function and put it here so that you
"Don't Repeat Yourself" (DRY principle). Or even if the piece of code is
complicated, put it into a function to then document what it does. The
recommended approach is to create a function for each main output item (each
figure, table, etc) in a scientific product (e.g. `figure_one()` to create
figure one).

Use RStudio's R script 'Insert Section' (Ctrl-Shift-R) to split up your
functions by utility or purpose. You can see the contents of this file easily
using the 'Document Outline' (Ctrl-Shift-O), which shows the sections and
functions. Use 'Insert Roxygen Skeleton' (Ctrl-Alt-Shift-R) to document
individual functions. 

Best practice is to split the functions up into individual files based on what
the functions do. For example, have one file for plotting functions (plots.R),
another for data wrangling functions (wrangle.R), and so on. These functions in
the `R/` folder can then be all accessible by running `devtools::load_all()`
(Ctrl-Shift-L) for interactive use or within the Rmd files so that another
document format (e.g. Word) can be knitted.

Commit message:

revise templates and vignettes text to be less opinionated. Fixes #108
Manifesto has been moved into the gitlab rostools repo

inst/templates/R-README.md, after:

# Description of R/ folder and .R files

This folder contains custom functions or R scripts used for this project's
analyses, such as in the `doc/` folder. It's recommended that if a piece of code
is used more than once in your analysis files, make it into a function and put
it here so that you "Don't Repeat Yourself" (DRY principle). Or even if the
piece of code is complicated, put it into a function to then document what it
does. One recommended approach is to create a function or script for each main
output item (each figure, table, etc) in a scientific product (e.g.
`figure_one()` to create figure one).

Use RStudio's R script 'Insert Section' (Ctrl-Shift-R) to split up your
functions by utility or purpose. You can see the contents of this file easily
using the 'Document Outline' (Ctrl-Shift-O), which shows the sections and
functions. Use 'Insert Roxygen Skeleton' (Ctrl-Alt-Shift-R) to document
individual functions. 

Best practice is to split the functions/code up into individual files based on what
the functions or code do. For example, have one file for plotting functions (plots.R),
another for data wrangling functions (wrangle.R), and so on. The code in
the `R/` folder can be accessible by either: running `devtools::load_all()`
(Ctrl-Shift-L) for interactive use or within the Rmd files so that another
document format (e.g. Word) can be knitted; or, by running `source(here::here("R/filename.R"))`
if the code has been written as a script.
